What is cloud computing?
Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of IT resources over the Internet with pay-as-you-go pricing. Instead of buying, owning, and maintaining physical 
data centers and servers, you can access technology services, such as computing power, storage, and databases, on an as-needed basis from a cloud provider 
like Amazon Web Services (AWS).
-------------
------------
------------
Difference between AWS and Azure?
KEY DIFFERENCE
Both Azure and AWS supports hybrid cloud but Azure supports hybrid cloud better.
Azure offers express routes while AWS offers direct connection.
Azure provides security by offering permissions on the whole account whereas AWS security is provided using defined roles with permission control feature.
Azure machines are grouped into cloud service and respond to the same domain name with various ports whereas the AWS machine can be accessed separately.
Azure has a virtual network cloud whereas AWS has Virtual Private Cloud.
Azure has 140 availability zone whereas AWS has 61 availability zone.


AWS INTERVIEW QUESTIONS:

1) Explain what is AWS?
AWS stands for Amazon Web Service; it is a collection of remote computing services also known as a cloud computing platform. 
This new realm of cloud computing is also known as IaaS or Infrastructure as a Service.

2) Mention what are the key components of AWS?
The key components of AWS are
Route 53:A DNS web service
Simple E-mail Service:It allows sending e-mail using RESTFUL API call or via regular SMTP.
Identity and Access Management:It provides enhanced security and identity management for your AWS account.
Simple Storage Device or (S3):It is a storage device and the most widely used AWS service.
Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2): It provides on-demand computing resources for hosting applications. It is handy in case of unpredictable workloads
Elastic Block Store (EBS):It offers persistent storage volumes that attach to EC2 instance.
CloudWatch: To monitor AWS resources, It allows administrators to view and collect key. Also, one can set a notification alarm in case of trouble.

3) Explain what S3 is?
S3 stands for Simple Storage Service. You can use S3 interface to store and retrieve any amount of data, at any time and from anywhere on the web. 
For S3, the payment model is “pay as you go.”

4) What is AMI?
AMI stands for Amazon Machine Image.  It’s a template that provides the information (an operating system, an application server, and applications) 
required to launch an instance, which is a copy of the AMI running as a virtual server in the cloud.  You can launch instances from as many different 
AMIs as you need.

5) Mention what is the relationship between an instance and AMI?
From a single AMI, you can launch multiple types of instances.  An instance type defines the hardware of the host computer used for your instance. 
Each instance type provides different computer and memory capabilities.  Once you launch an instance, it looks like a traditional host, and we can 
interact with it from any computer.

7) How can you send a request to Amazon S3?
Amazon S3 is a REST service, and you can send a request by using the REST API or the AWS SDK wrapper libraries that wrap the underlying Amazon S3 REST API.

8) Mention what is the difference between Amazon S3 and EC2?
The difference between EC2 and Amazon S3 is

EC2	                                                                            S3
It is a cloud web service used for hosting your application.             It is a data storage system where any amount of data can be stored.
It is like a huge computer machine which can run either Linux            It has a REST interface and uses secure HMAC-SHA1 authentication keys.
or Windows and can handle applications like PHP, Python, Apache
or any databases.


9) How many buckets can you create in AWS by default?
By default, you can create up to 100 buckets in each of your AWS accounts.

11) Explain what T2 instances is?
T2 instances are designed to provide moderate baseline performance and the capability to burst to higher performance as required by the workload.

12) In VPC with private and public subnets, database servers should ideally be launched into which subnet?
With private and public subnets in VPC, database servers should ideally launch into private subnets.

13) Mention what are the security best practices for Amazon EC2?
For secure Amazon EC2 best practices, follow the following steps

Use AWS identity and access management to control access to your AWS resources
Restrict access by allowing only trusted hosts or networks to access ports on your instance
Review the rules in your security groups regularly
Only open up permissions that you require
Disable password-based login, for example, launched from your AMI

14) Explain how the buffer is used in Amazon web services?
The buffer is used to make the system more robust to manage traffic or load by synchronizing different component.  Usually, components receive and process
the requests in an unbalanced way. With the help of buffer, the components will be balanced and will work at the same speed to provide faster services.

15) While connecting to your instance what are the possible connection issues one might face?
The possible connection errors one might encounter while connecting instances are:
Connection timed out
User key not recognized by the server
Host key not found, permission denied
An unprotected private key file
Server refused our key or No supported authentication method available
Error using MindTerm on Safari Browser
Error using Mac OS X RDP Client

16) What are key-pairs in AWS?
Key-pairs are secure login information for your virtual machines. To connect to the instances, you can use key-pairs which contain a public-key and private-key.

17)  What are the different types of instances?
Following are the types of instances:
General purpose
Computer Optimized
Memory Optimized
Storage Optimized
Accelerated Computing

18) Is the property of broadcast or multicast supported by Amazon VPC?
No, currently Amazon VPI (Virtual Path Identifier) is not providing support for broadcast or multicast.

19) How many Elastic IPs are allowed for each AWS account?
5 VPC Elastic IP addresses are allowed for each AWS account.

20) Explain default storage class in S3?
The default storage class is a Standard frequently accessed.

21) What are the Roles?
Roles are used to provide permissions to entities which you can trust within your AWS account. Roles are very similar to users.
However, with roles, you do not require to create any username and password to work with the resources.

22) What are the edge locations?
Edge location is the area where the contents will be cached. So, whenever user is trying to access any content, the content will automatically be 
searched in the edge location.

23) What is VPC?
VPC stands for Virtual Private Cloud. It is a network which is logically isolated from another network in the cloud. 
It allows you to have your IP address range, internet gateways, subnet and security groups.

24) Explain snowball
Snowball is a data transport option. With the help of snowball, you can transfer a massive amount of data from one place to another. 
It helps you to reduce networking costs.

25) What is a redshift?
Redshift is a big data warehouse product. It is a fast,powerful and fully managed data warehouse service in the cloud.

26) What are the advantages of auto-scaling?
Following are the advantages of autoscaling
Offers fault tolerance
Better availability
Better cost management

27) What is meant by subnet?
A large section of IP Address divided into chunks is known as subnets.

28) Can you establish a Peering connection to a VPC in a different region?
Yes, we can establish a peering connection to a VPC in a different region. It is called inter-region VPC peering connection.

29) What is SQS?
SQS stands for Simple Queue Service. It is distributed queuing service which acts as a mediator for two controllers.

30) How many subnets can you have per VPC?
You can have 200 subnets per VPC.

32) What is the role of AWS CloudTrail?
CloudTrail is a specially designed tool for logging and tracking API calls. It helps to audit all S3 bucket access.

33) When was EC2 officially launched?
EC2 officially launched in the year 2006.

34) What is SimpleDB?
SimpleDB is a data repository of structure record which encourages data doubts and indexing both S3 and EC2 are called SimpleDB.

35) Explain Amazon ElasticCache
Amazon Elasticcache is a web service which makes it easy to deploy, scale and store data in the cloud.

36) What is AWS Lambda?
Lambda is an Amazon compute service which allows you to run code in the  AWS Cloud without managing servers.

37) Name the types of AMI provided by AWS
The types of AMI provided by AWS are:
Instance store backed
EBS backed

38) Name the AWS service exists only to redundantly cache data and images?
AWS Edge locations are service which redundantly cache data and images.

39) Explain Geo Restriction in CloudFront
A Geo-restriction feature helps you to prevent users of specific geographic locations from accessing content which you’re distributing through a 
CloudFront web distribution.

41) What is boot time taken for the instance stored backed AMI?
The boot time for an Amazon instance store-backend AMI is less than 5 minutes.

42) Do you need an internet gateway to use peering connections?
Yes, the Internet gateway is needed to use VPC (virtual private cloud peering) connections.

43) How to connect EBS volume to multiple instances?
We can’t be able to connect EBS volume to multiple instances.  Although, you can connect various EBS Volumes to a single instance.

44) List different types of cloud services
Various types of cloud services are:
Software as a Service (SaaS),
Data as a Service (DaaS)
Platform as a Service (PaaS)
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS).

45) State the difference between An Instance  and AMI
AMI is a template consisting software configuration part. For example Operating systems, applications, application server if you start an instance,
a duplicate of the AMI in a row as an attendant in the cloud.

46) What are the different types of Load Balancer in AWS services?
Two types of Load balancer are:
Application Load Balancer
Network load Balancer
Classic Load Balancer

47) In which situation you will select provisioned IOPS over standard RDS storage?
You should select provisioned IOPS storage over standard RDS storage if you want to perform batch-related workloads.

48) What are the important features of Amazon cloud search?
Important features of the Amazon cloud are:
Boolean searches
Prefix Searches
Range searches
Entire text search
AutoComplete advice

49) Can vertically scaling is allows in  Amazon Instance?
Yes, you can vertically estimate one Amazon instance.

50) What is the use of lifecycle hooks in Autoscaling?
Lifecycle hooks are used for autoscaling to put an additional wait time to a scale in or scale out event.

51) What are various layers of Cloud Architecture explained in AWS training?
Different layers of cloud architecture are:
Cloud controller
Cluster controller
Storage Controller
Node Controller

52) What are the storage class available in Amazon s3?
Storage classes available with Amazon s3 are:
Amazon S3 standard
Amazon S3 standard-infrequent Access
Amazon S3 Reduced Redundancy Storage
Amazon Glacier

53) Name some of the DB engines which can be used in AWS RDS
MS-SQL DB
MariaDB
MYSQL DB
OracleDB
PostgreDB

#######################################################################################################

AWS course:

Advantages of cloud:

1) Pay only for consumed computing resources but not for data centers and services.
2) Sharing the cost with other customers - many customers are aggregated
3) Highly scalable
4) Increase speed and agility - launch resources easily.
5) Stop spending money on running and maintaining data centers.
6) Deploy apps in mins with few clicks through out the world.

Types of cloud computing:

SAAS: Software as a service(for customers)
A completed product that is run and managed by the service provider.
Don't worry about how the service is maintained. It just works and remains available.
EX:Salesforce,office365,gmail etc

PAAS: Plotform as a service(for developers)
Removes the need for your organization to manage the underlying infrastructure. Focus on deployment and management of you apps.
Don't worry about provisioning, configuring or understanding the hardware or OS.
Ex: Elastic bean stock(AWS), heroku,engines(google)

IAAS: Infrastructure as a service (for Admins)
The basic building blocks for cloud IT. Provides access to networking features,computers and data storage space.
Don't worry about IT staff, data centers and hardware.
EX:AWS,google cloud plotform,Microsoft Azure.

IAAS
Networking --> storage --> servers --> Virtualization (Service provider management) O/S --> Middleware -->runtime --> data -->applications (Customer management).

PAAS
Networking --> storage --> servers --> Virtualization -->O/S --> Middleware -->runtime (Service provider management) data -->applications (Customer management).

SAAS
Networking --> storage --> servers --> Virtualization -->O/S --> Middleware -->runtime -->data -->applications. (Service provider management).

Everything will be taken care by service provider and made all this softwares available on internet for us to user for different business purposes by cloud.
ex: emailservices,online games,shoping portals,Hadoop tools etc --->SAAS




What is AWS region and availability zones?
AWS has the concept of a Region, which is a physical location around the world where we cluster data centers. We call each group of logical data centers 
as Availability Zone. Each AWS Region consists of multiple, isolated, and physically separate AZ's within a geographic area.

We can select region but not AZ when creating instances.But after creation we can change default region and AZ as well.

EC2:
1.Choose AMI :here choose what type of os we need
2.Choose instance type: what type of instance free tier
3.Configure instance: security (N/W,vpc etc)
4.Add storage: we can add storage here for ubuntu:8GB, RHEL:10GB, windows:30GB by default for free tier.(EBS:Elastic Block Storage added storage)
   device :/dev/sda1 -- primary volume -means on which our OS is running.
   general purpose ssd -- in this IOPS is constant,provisnal IOPS(i/p and o/p per sec)--- in this IOPS can be changed as per your requirement.
5.Add Tags: give name for the instance.
6.Configure security groups: SSH protocal will go by default---custom(particular location),anywhere (login from any location),my IP(only from my network)

Review and Launch. 
choose key pair -- acknowledge -- Launch --- click instance ID go to instance details.

Login through Putty(When we are on windows to connect with remote linux server we use putty):first change .pem file to .ppk file by giving key pair
in puttygen and saving as .ppk.
Take public IP of the instance go to putty give IP there then connection-SSH-Auth-browser for key pair name(.ppk)-open
login as:ubuntu (user name)
it will authenticate key and will connect with remote server.
now we can go to super user if needed.We can install the apps we need now it will work as our physical machine.




Action:
running, stop -- will stop temporarily, terminate--- stops permanently and remove from dashboard.
when we stop instance after restarting the public IP of that instance will change, but if we want constant public IP go for elastic IP.

EC2:
1.Choose AMI. ---what type  of os we want.
2.Choose instance type -- freetier and storage info.
3.Configure instance -- security ,no: of instances etc
4.Add storage -- EBS to add storage.General purpose SSD(constant) provisional IOPS SSD(dynamic)
5.Add Tags -- to give name to our instance.
6.Configure security group -- SSH remote connection, we can restrict connectivity by choosing My IP -only from my n/w,custom -commonly using n/w,anywhere-diff PCs.
Review and lunch
Lunch -- Download key pair.
connect with putty: Putty configuration --With public IP then go to connection-SSH-Auth(authentication)-keypair(.ppk)-open but putty accepts only 
putty private keys(.pem to .ppk) go to putty gen load-select .pem file-save as private key-yes-save(.ppk) with name

Login:
username RHEL : ec2-user, centos : centos, ubuntu: ec2-user, windows: administrator etc  only this default users are needed to login then we can switch to super user.

Login directly from linux VM then we can use .pem file to conncet
#ssh-i keypair(.pem) ec2-user@publicIP -- this pem file should have read only permissions to the owner(400) then only we can connect.

Actions:
Instance state -- stop, terminate, Reboot, start are there. Stop just stops the running instance but terminate removes the instance from the dashboard.


Elastic IP address:in n/w and security select elastic ips - allocate new ip address - allocate (new IP address is created) - close
click on new ip - actions - assocate - select instance - save ---> now for that particular instance IP is associated.
Now we can check in dashboard of instances by selecting instance public ip = elastic ip even after instance is restarted.
we can also deassociate the elastic ip for that particular instance by selecting deassociate option in actions and also we can select the particuar range for 
our elastic IP. Elastic ip are chargable when they are not associated to any instance.

To connect with remote windows machine cilck on RDP - credentials (click on connect take username,for PWD click on password and choose key pair then 
select .pem file of instance and decript we will see our password and login.

Password less auth
-- ssh-keygen  ---->generate public and private keys
-- ssh-copy-id -i ---> copy the public key into the instance


AWS Global infrastructure:


Scope of different services:Service limits

AZ:
EC2 instance,EBS volume,RDS instance,Redshift node,subnets,Elastic file system

Regional:
S3 Bucket,AMI,snapshot(EBS/RDS),DynamoDB,VPC,Elastic IP, SQS-SNS,CloudWatch Metrics

Global:
IAM Entities(Users,Groups,Roles and Policies) , Route53, CloudFront Distribution





