  My name is Urmila, I have 4 years of experience in DevOps and build release activities. Majorly I was involved in setting up CI/CD pipelines from scratch.
We were using Github enterprise as version control system. I created repositories and assigned permissions to application teams. I integreated github with Jenkins 
to fetch source code.We are using jenkins as continuous integration tool, I installed Jenkins and did master-slave configuration.Created various jenkins jobs based
on customer requirement. I have written jenkins file to create pipeline jobs. I integrated jenkins with nexus artifactory. So, whenever pipeline job run it will
push the artifact into nexus by using nexus artifact uploader plugin.

  For continuous deployment and configuration management we have Ansible. I have written various playbooks and configured them to remove manual efforts
  We have splunk for monitoring our apps and as well as infrastructure. We hosted few applications on AWS cloud where I have working experience on services like
EC2,S3,IAM,VPC,Autoscaling and ELB.
  We are using jira for project iteration and tracking purpose. We follow Agile with scrum. Usually our sprint goes for 16 days.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  My name is Urmila, I have 2.5 years of experience in DevOps and build release activities. Majorly I was involved in setting up CI/CD pipelines from scratch.
We have used Github enterprise as version control system. I created repositories and assigned permissions to application teams. I integreated github with Jenkins 
to fetch source code.We have used jenkins as continuous integration tool, I installed Jenkins and did master-slave configuration.Created various jenkins jobs based
on customer requirement. I have written jenkins file to create pipeline jobs. I integrated jenkins with nexus artifactory. So, whenever pipeline job run it will
push the artifact into nexus by using nexus artifact uploader plugin.

I have basic knowledge on Docker,Kubernetes and AWS.

I have 1.2 years of experience in Risk Management. We were using splunk for monitoring our apps as well as infrastructure. When ever any suspicious activity 
happened then we will get notables in splunk, I used to investigate cause for the malware and try to get it resolved by checking with end users.
I have good experience on investigating phishing mails, checking URLs,attachments,headers,domains etc

Also I have working experience with tools like EDR(Endpoint detection and response),ATP(Advanced Threat Protection) and ticketing tools like Global call center
(GCC),BMC. 
  
